CPP-4991 S5274 Rework rule to cover only optimization inhibiting moves and not all redundant move (#3684)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5274/cfamily/rule.adoc

In addition to that the compile will implicitly use a move operation, or skip coping of the object in some situations.

Firstly, the copy will be elided (not performed) or automatically turned into a move operation,
when the temporary object of type `T` is used to initialize a parameter or variable of type `T` or `const T`, 
or returned from the function that declares `T` or `const T` as return type:
[source,cpp]
----
class A {/* ... */};
A create();

void asParam(A a);

A returnedFromFunc() {
  // For all examples below, the object will not be copied,
  // and either the no copy or move will be performed (as optimization, that is guaranteed since C++17)
  // or move operation will be used.
  A a = create();
  asParam(createA()); 
  return A();
}
----

Calling `std::move` on such an object is not only necessary but will also prevent the compiler from performing (inhibit) copy elision,
and the rule raises issues in that case.
[source,cpp]
----
class A {/* ... */};
A create();

void asParam(A a);

A returnedFromFunc() {
  // Move operations need to be performed, and cannot be elided.
  A a = std::move(create()); // Noncompliant

>   asParam(createA());        // Noncompliant

Author: Yes, added.

>   return A();                // Noncompliant

Author: Yes

as a return type:
[source,cpp]
----
class A {/* ... */};

A returnedLocalVar() {
  A a = create();
  // Variable a is automatically moved here
  return a;
}
----

These conditions overlap with the conditions under which copy elision optimization,
referred to as Named Return Value Optimization (NRVO) can be performed by the compiler. 
When this optimization is applied the local variable is returned without any copy or move operation being performed.
In this case, adding `std::move` to the return statement will inhibit this optimization,
and the rule raises an issue.
[source,cpp]
----
class A {/* ... */};

A returnedLocalVar() {
  A a = create();
  // Variable a is moved, but NRVO cannot be performed
  return std::move(a); // Noncompliant
}
----

=== Why is the issue raised if my class does not have a move constructor?

A move itself is not performing any object operation, and casting a source to `rvalue`.
This leads to the constructor and assignment operator that accepts rvalue reference as a parameter,
also referred to as move constructor and move assignment, to be selected by overload resolution.

> However, in a case when the class does not provide such a constructor, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when the class does not provide such a constructor,
```

a copy constructor/assignment will be invoked respectively.

Such invocation of copy constructor may still be eliminated by copy-elision optimizations,
and thus redundant `std::move` calls that inhibit such optimization, have a higher impact in such situations.

[source,cpp]
----
class OnlyCopyable {
  OnlyCopyable(OnlyCopyable const&);
  /* No move constructor */
};
OnlyCopyable create();

void test() {
  // Forces a move operation, that invokes copy constructor
  OnlyCopyable c1 = std::move(create()); // Noncompliant
  // Copy elision eliminates invocation of the copy constructor
  OnlyCopyable c2 = create(); // Compliant
}
----

=== Why is an issue raised when passing an argument to a reference parameter?

The copy elision optimization applies only if a new value is produced from the source,
thus it is not applicable if the parameter is reference to the same type:

[source,cpp]
----
void process(A&& sink);

void passArgument() {
  // No move operation is triggered, as the parameter is a reference to A
  process(std::move(create())); // Noncompliant, makes changes non-local

>   process(create());            // Complaint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  process(create());            // Compliant
```

}
----

Such redundant calls to `std::move` are not inhibiting optimization at this point.
However, when the `process` function is modified to accept `A` by value,
it will prevent the compiler from eliminating the move operation altogether.

> To fully benefit from performance benefits change, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully benefit from the performance benefits of this change, 
```

> the programmer would need to review and update all call sides and process functions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the maintainers would need to review and update all call sites and process functions,
```

reducing the maintainability of the code.

> Moreover, if the parameter is a reference of the type to which the converted object can be converted,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, if the parameter is a reference to a type to which the converted object can be converted,
```

then copy elision may still happen when initializing the parameter of the converting constructor.
[source,cpp]
----
class B {
  // Converting constructor takes object B by value
  B(A a); 
};
void processB(B&& sink);

void passArgument() {

>   processB(create());            // Complaint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  processB(create());            // Compliant
```

  processB(std::move(create())); // Noncompliant, inhibits copy-elision when initializing constructor parameter
  // This call is equivalent to:
  processB(B(std::move(create()))); // Noncompliant, inhibits copy-elision when initializing constructor parameter 
}
----

=== Why issues are not raised for all redundant moves?

> The requirements from performing an implicit move where relaxed in {cpp}20 and {cpp}23 standards,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requirements from performing an implicit move were relaxed in {cpp}20 and {cpp}23 standards,
```

with some of them being applied retroactively.
As a consequence depending on the language and compiler, 
a call to `std::move` may or not be redundant in the return statement,
and thus required for the code to be portable accross compilers.

== How to fix it

> Remove  call to `std::move` flagged by the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove call to `std::move` flagged by the rule.
```

  return std::move(a); // Noncompliant
}
----

=== Why is the issue raised if my class does not have a move constructor?

A move itself is not performing any object operation, and casting a source to `rvalue`.
This leads to the constructor and assignment operator that accepts rvalue reference as a parameter,
also referred to as move constructor and move assignment, to be selected by overload resolution.
However, when the class does not provide such a constructor,
a copy constructor/assignment will be invoked respectively.

Such invocation of copy constructor may still be eliminated by copy-elision optimizations,
and thus redundant `std::move` calls that inhibit such optimization, have a higher impact in such situations.

[source,cpp]
----
class OnlyCopyable {
  OnlyCopyable(OnlyCopyable const&);
  /* No move constructor */
};
OnlyCopyable create();

void test() {
  // Forces a move operation, that invokes copy constructor
  OnlyCopyable c1 = std::move(create()); // Noncompliant
  // Copy elision eliminates invocation of the copy constructor
  OnlyCopyable c2 = create(); // Compliant
}
----

=== Why is an issue raised when passing an argument to a reference parameter?

> The copy elision optimization applies only if a new value is produced from the source,
> thus it is not applicable if the parameter is reference to the same type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The copy elision optimization happens only if a new value is produced from the source,
not if the parameter is a reference to the same type:
```

[source,cpp]
----
void process(A&& sink);

void passArgument() {
  // No move operation is triggered, as the parameter is a reference to A

>   process(std::move(create())); // Noncompliant, makes changes non-local

Reviewer: The sample already mentions what will be explained in the next paragraph. I think that is a bit confusing. Perhaps it should be moved after the explanation about maintainability?

Author: The process here is taken by reference, so this is an illustration for the previous paragraph. Yes, the Noncomplain have a explanation referring to what is later. I can remove it, if you would consider that cleaner.

Author: I would find it more confusing if that example would be after a paragraph that explained the consequences of changing something to be by value. And the section title already says that the issue is raised.

  process(create());            // Compliant
}
----

Such redundant calls to `std::move` are not inhibiting optimization at this point.
However, when the `process` function is modified to accept `A` by value,
it will prevent the compiler from eliminating the move operation altogether.
To fully benefit from the performance impact of this change, 
the maintainers would need to review and update all call sites and process functions,
reducing the maintainability of the code.

> Moreover, if the parameter is a reference to a type to which the converted object can be converted,
> then copy elision may still happen when initializing the parameter of the converting constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, if the parameter is a reference to a type to which the argument is converted,
then copy elision may still happen when calling the converting constructor.
```

[source,cpp]
----
class B {
  // Converting constructor takes object B by value
  B(A a); 
};
void processB(B&& sink);

void passArgument() {
  processB(create());            // Compliant
  processB(std::move(create())); // Noncompliant, inhibits copy-elision when initializing constructor parameter
  // This call is equivalent to:
  processB(B(std::move(create()))); // Noncompliant, inhibits copy-elision when initializing constructor parameter 
}
----

=== Why issues are not raised for all redundant moves?

The requirements from performing an implicit move were relaxed in {cpp}20 and {cpp}23 standards,
with some of them being applied retroactively.

> As a consequence depending on the language and compiler, 
> a call to `std::move` may or not be redundant in the return statement,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a consequence depending on the standard and compiler versions, 
a call to `std::move` may or may not be redundant in the return statement,
```

and thus required for the code to be portable accross compilers.

== How to fix it

> Remove call to `std::move` flagged by the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove the call to `std::move` flagged by the rule.
```

A f() {
  A a = getA(); // Compliant
  return a; // Compliant
}
----

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,cpp,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
class A {};
A getA();

A f() {
  std::vector<A> v;
  v.push_back(std::move(getA())); // Noncompliant
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,cpp,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
class A {};
A getA();

> A f() {

Reviewer: The function doesn't return `A` anymore.

Author: Fixed
